hi everyone all around the world Lazlo
Montgomery hair coming to you for the
hundred and sixth time from the China
history podcast com history of Hong Kong
part six today we finally made it to the
20th century didn't think it would take
this long but no one sent any angry
emails demanding that I pick up the pace
a little so we'll just keep moving along
at the same rate last time we made it
all the way up to the governorship of
Sir William Blake today we're going to
start off with Hong Kong's first and
only Jewish governor sir Matthew Nathan
there's a little fun fact for you he was
governor from 1904 to 1907 during the
interim when Blake left in November 1903
and when Nathan arrived on the scene in
July 1904 the colonial secretary at the
time Sir Francis Henry may May road in
the mid-levels that rings a bell he
filled in as Acting Governor and later
colonial secretary this brief period
when may was the guy in charge saw the
passing of the peak reservation
ordinance which was a fancy way of
saying no Chinese allowed on the peak
but they did make an exception we'll get
to that later on unlike Blake Francis
may went after all these anti Ching
rabble rousers who carried out their
nefarious work in Hong Kong to hasten
the demise of the dynasty he had them
deported or dealt with and when Nathan
arrived he got on famously with me
because they both saw eye-to-eye and how
things ought to be in the colony they
weren't what you'd call progressive or
the most culturally sensitive of
government administrators sir Matthew
Nathan depended heavily on maize 25
years experience at the colony to get
him through any rough patches may served
in all 38 years in Hong Kong and was one
of the most dominating personalities of
the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries nathan road
or Nathan's folly as it was first
referred to and fair of the traffic
nightmares that were predicted was this
governor's bright idea to link Kowloon
up with the New Territories for at least
up to boundary street when work first
began on Nathan Road in 1861 it was
originally called Robinson Road after
Hercules Robinson but in 1909 even
though governor nathan sort of left in
semi disgrace having been recalled and
all it was renamed after him
construction of the kcr the kowloon
canton railway began during his
administration and Nathan's credited
with carrying that ball forward this was
really his proudest achievement and
although he was a famous micro manager
in this huge project he made this whole
deal happen and it reached the border
with shenzhen in 1910 and later on in
1912 it linked up with guangzhou or
canton once this case ER was in
operation it busted Kowloon wide open
for growth and development the main
thoroughfares of kowloon were laid out
during Nathan's short time in office now
besides Nathan Road in gym CJ the Golden
Mile as this road is also known in
Queensland south of the city of Brisbane
there are Nathan and Nathan heights and
in deccan home of the Australian mint
near the capital city of canberra there
is Nathan streets all named after this
governor he also served down there after
his stint in Hong Kong Nathan was
succeeded by the right honorable Lord Lu
guard sir frederick lu guard one of the
main roads on the peak is named after
him he served as governor from 1907 in
1912 it's during the time of Sir
Frederick Lou guards governorship that
the walls came tumbling down in China
the Ching dynasty fell up in Shandong
Province there was a the city of way
high which had been a British colony
called way high wave he was also known
in the British colonial world as
Edward the city was tied up with the
russo-japanese war in the sino-japanese
war Port Arthur or Lucian co in all the
history associated with that place right
before and right after the turn of the
century is a whole big juicy topic for a
future podcast series but for our
purposes today the British had least way
hi first in 1898 one of the conditions
was that they can hold on to it as long
as the Russians remained across the
water in Port Arthur today neutran Co is
a district of dahlia right across that
narrow channel separating shandong from
Lee owning Port Arthur was the tip of
the tip of the layout on peninsula if
you're a naval enthusiast and you like
maps go look at this place and judge for
yourself you'd be really hard-pressed to
find any place in north China that could
outdo the ports of Port Arthur and way
highway the as far as ports of strategic
military importance way highway served
as one of the two China ports for the
British Navy Hong Kong being the other
one when the Japanese defeated the
Russians the British got to keep the
lease at way highway but the terms of
the agreement were again that you know
they could stay there as long as the
Japanese remained in control of the
layout on peninsula well as far as to
frederick lu guard the 14th governor of
hong kong is concerned he had one of
those bright ideas that no one heated
and ended up going nowhere Lou guard
said let's give way highway back to
China and take the New Territories in
Hong Kong in perpetuity instead whoever
the decision makers were when they
smoked their cigars and enjoyed their
brandy said New Territories and
perpetuity for way highway forget about
it not worth it so blue guards idea of
swapping the New Territories for keeps
in exchange for giving up this very
strategic port at the end that I've
given back anyway in 1930 didn't happen
the decision was
just hold on to the New Territories
least till 1997 comes along after all
that's way far in the future and because
of this later on in the 1980s Britain's
opening gambit to this great drama was
to inquire about the at least that was
coming up in 1997 what if Britain had
negotiated with China to make the
exchange without the specter of the
lease hanging over sino-british
relations in the 80s and 90s who knows
what Hong Kong status might be in 2012
Lou guard was also credited with the
founding of the University of Hong Kong
this was his pet project and the college
of medicine that I mentioned where sun
yat-sen attended med school this college
was folded into the new University of
Hong Kong the initial funding for this
whole idea of a hong kong university
began with conversations between
Frederick lu guard and his good friend a
Parsi businessmen sir hamas ji na ro g
ma d hn mahdi of motti road fame in the
very heart of jin SE j money was raised
from benefactors in both the Western and
Chinese worlds and the foundation stone
was laid in march of 1910 one of the
other landmark events that took place
during lou guards watch was the final
clamp down on opium this time they did
it for good in the entrepreneurs and
companies who had a rat in that race
fought the new law tooth and nail this
was still a big source of annual revenue
for the colony twenty-nine percent in
fact essentially the forces with vested
interests in maintaining the opium trade
sort of got backed into a corner the
time had come finally he went once and
for all the forces back in London as
well as locally in Hong Kong spoke out
against the evils of this foreign mud no
longer could the powers that be
obfuscated and dodge this issue or
negotiate you know to keep the status
quo just for a little bit
longer the universal voices of all
reasonable people all pretty much lined
up against opium and were dead set
against allowing the status quo to
continue popular opinion in London and
all around the UK was dead set against
the opium trade so the politicians of
the day anxious to please their
constituency and to do what they had to
do this was one of those issues were
matters in London conflicted with the
domestic interests in Hong Kong there
was quite a bit of resentment you know
the merits of the issue notwithstanding
that this whole opium thing shouldn't
have been handled unilaterally by those
far away in London in the end it was
those in Hong Kong who had to deal with
the reality of trying to carry the whole
thing out and enforce it it was easy for
all those people back at the head office
to make all these pronouncements but
getting stuck being the guy on the scene
and having to go against the public tide
wasn't so easy the way Hong Kong people
acted was very often rooted in
traditions and ways of thinking that had
been the accepted way for hundreds and
even thousands of years there was no
small amount of resentment and feeling
that you know who the heck are those
guys don't know squat telling us how to
run our business it wasn't so much the
moral aspects of stamping out opium as
much as it was the whole matter of how
was the colony going to fill that
29-percent shortfall in revenues well
you know taxes went up on luxuries and
that was one of the things that came out
of this the main losers in stamping out
the opium trade in Hong Kong went
quietly in the night after their losses
were mitigated by government promises
and Britain and China of further
compensation a small price to pay
basically in Hong Kong the trade was
made illegal and enforced strictly a
small amount of prepared opium was still
allowed but no trade in raw opium
whatever trade remained it was strictly
regulated and by the time Lu guard left
Hong Kong in march of 1912 it was clear
the battle
days were over and the opium devons were
driven deep underground all the licensed
opium dens in Hong Kong everyone were
all shut down okay Lu guard as I said
was on duty when the Qin Dynasty
officially or unofficially fell on
double ten-day October 10th 1911 Sun
yat-sen had formed the revolutionary
alliance the Tong monk way in Tokyo in
August of 1905 and the branch that was
established in Hong Kong served as the
command central for the whole movement
until the beginning of the end finally
came at the wu chun uprising on that
historic date of 10 10 1911 so Hong
Kong's importance to the whole movement
to get rid of the dynasty and set up a
republic with a constitution and
everything Hong Kong served as the
Revolutionary base we're all these
dreamers mostly from the south of China
got together and made all their plans
for China after so many years of the
country you know being down on its luck
now I wasn't present in Hong Kong in
1911 to see the dancing of the streets
and jubilation at the fall of the manchu
qing dynasty but i was there in 1997
when the colony returned to china and
the patriotic display was quite loud and
nearly universal now that's what it
seemed to me apparently there was quite
a bit of joy and celebration at the news
of the fall of the Ching governor Lu
guard had written regarding the fall of
the chain that he had witnessed in Hong
Kong quote the most amazing outburst
which has ever been seen and heard in
the history of the colony the entire
Chinese populace appeared to have been
temporarily demented with joy you know
there are four Chinese characters that
make a lot of Chinese bow their heads in
shame these are change shall mourn yen
this translates to last year's of the
ching hearing those words change ham
onion
back then and even today still evokes
memories of unequal treaties getting
kicked in the ass all the time by
Western powers playing second fiddle to
Japan you know who had become the alpha
male of the Far East opium the Taipings
the boxers the warlords and everything
that had been a disaster for China and
now the Ching dynasty was gone and there
was this sense of hope for a new
beginning with the Ching dynasty passing
from the scene that hoped that China
would rise again suddenly became very
realistic and it was in Hong Kong where
a lot of the post Ching dynasty planning
sessions happened this wasn't only
because the movement was coalescing
around Sun yat-sen and his southern
faction of intellectuals money man
strong men the other reason was Hong
Kong was a safe haven from the storms
going on all over China it's not like
the Qin Dynasty fell on october 10th and
the Republic of China was up and running
you know on october eleventh 1911 it
took a long while to set everything
straight and get almost everyone to
agree on a system there were centers all
over China where plans were being hashed
out certainly Beijing Shanghai wuhan but
most of all in Hong Kong that place was
safe because it was Chinese but not
controlled by China the British didn't
want these guys makin revolution are
causing disturbances on their turf but
they knew what was going on and for the
most part let it all happen and stayed
out of the politics that is unless the
talk turned against them British
colonial policies you see the jubilance
felt by the Chinese in Hong Kong got a
little out of hand there was a sentiment
wafting about that they got rid of the
Ching and now it was time to get rid of
the British to this sentiment didn't
really get enough traction and those in
charge were able to take sufficient
action to snuff this out before it got
out of hand all this revolution was
great but the elites of society
and frankly everyone who had something
to gain from a stable Hong Kong economy
drew the line as far as how far they
were willing to go to upset the apple
cart in Hong Kong so nobody was sorry to
see the man shoots go but the end of the
dynasty and the formation of a republic
it opened up a new period in Hong Kong
as well barbers all around the Chinese
parts of time we're doing a brisk
business cutting off the queues of the
male residents nobody had to wear that
hairstyle anymore there had been
relative peace and prosperity in Hong
Kong since around the time of governor
Blake public works had been carried out
that truly made the colony civilized
real change was happening where it
mattered quietly and through government
management malaria was soon wiped out as
was cholera bubonic plague
infrastructure was being built to
support that ever-growing population and
it's still going on today so from Blake
to Lu guard 1898 to 1912 Hong Kong's
progress and prosperity kept moving
forward at a respectable pace the whole
thing wasn't perfect when it started but
everyone was now settling in and Hong
Kong was becoming quite livable society
wasn't dominated by the British anymore
Chinese who had prospered in Hong Kong
during this time also rose to prominence
in society and took a major role in
shaping the colonies growth and
direction the perennial number two guys
Sir Francis may he finally got to sit
behind the governor's desk as the main
guy rather than as some acting governor
or administrator he found that a lot
easier to be the number two man than the
actual governor so great was his
experience in Hong Kong and so
encyclopedic his knowledge of the times
he just simply couldn't suffer all these
fools telling him what he should do so
he wasn't cut out for this may by the
way was Hong Kong's first governor to be
the subject of an assassination attempt
it happened to him on his first day when
he showed up for work after arriving
through Fiji where he had previously
been posted Sir Francis Henry may served
as governor from 19 12 to 19 19 which
means he was on duty when World War 1
happened fortunately for Hong Kong as
far as World War one was concerned it
was far far away from them and there
wasn't much if any impact on the colony
and this was also true later on at the
Great Depression Hong Kong didn't feel
much pain during mais time in the
governor's mansion the New Republic of
China was trying to get up off the
ground it was at this time that you
ensure Kai made his bid to become
emperor that whole move by UN was a
debacle and he died a year later in
nineteen sixty the man from that point
on China just fragmented into the
warlord era Hong Kong's population at
this time was half a million strong
still growing februari 26 1918 a
temporary grandstand set up at Happy
Valley racetrack collapsed and caused a
fire to break out after some food stalls
caught fire in the chaos almost 600
people died in the fire and commotion
and more than 400 were wounded even to
this day this is one of the worst fire
disasters in Hong Kong history to add to
those woes later on an outbreak of
cerebrospinal meningitis broke out that
killed more than a thousand more Hong
Kong residents July 1919 Hong Kong
residents all celebrated the conclusion
of great war there was a grand parade
from Happy Valley to central shortly
thereafter Sir Francis may suffered a
mild stroke and then left office in
September of 1919 surrett channeled
stubs followed me into government house
no one could have been trained to know
how to deal with the monumental changes
that we're now going on in China
governor stubs sure wasn't the May
fourth movement that followed the Treaty
of Versailles
didn't have that much of an effect on
Hong Kong frankly the colony in 1919 was
more plugged into an influenced by what
went on in and around can time then by
whatever went down in Beijing or north
of Guangdong the Hong Kong government as
it always did tried its best to tamp
down any kind of ostentatious
revolutionary activity but it also
didn't take measures to stop it either
Canton was not only a political center
that saw a succession of short-lived
regimes in the 1920s it was in this city
as well that the Communists began to
gather and start their organizing
everything that went on in canteen in
Guangzhou it inevitably spilled over
into Hong Kong it was in the 1920s that
Hong Kong for the first time actually
became a tourist destination the place
had finally made it this far thanks to
that wonderful British need for order
and cleanliness Hong Kong was developed
enough head hotels and infrastructure to
begin supporting the industry thanks to
the local commerce and industry there
was already enough critical mass to put
the place on the map and to be able to
offer any visiting tourists the whole
China experience with all the
conveniences and comforts that the
British were famous for and none of the
inconveniences of actually having to go
to China the 1920s that's when it all
began the notion of an exotic Hong Kong
vacation the 1920s saw a massive amount
of Public Works roads were built that
took you out as far as shek o at the
southern tip of hong kong island as well
as to repulse bay and one night Ron gap
roads during this time roads were built
that took you up to the peak including
the long and winding road that would be
named after governor Stubbs these were
the times of Bolshevism labor unrest
everywhere including Hong Kong the six
years that stubbs served as governor vez
overshadowed by endless labor unrest
stubbs tried a whole range of unpopular
heavy-handed tactics to tamp it all down
but all that did was cause a massive
wave of workers to leave Hong Kong to
find work in the booming economies of
southern Guangdong the matter of the
Muay Thai an ongoing controversy since
at least the 1870s came up in a big way
during the time of Reginald Stubbs is
with case of opium those in Britain who
claim the whole Muay Thai system was
immoral turn the thumbscrews on the Hong
Kong authorities to do something drastic
to get rid of it you know depending on
it the Conservatives or labor it was in
power matters would get debated then
swept under the rug then depending on
who came to power debate it again
regardless of how the governor members
of ledge go or exco felt about the issue
the whole muy JS system had some rather
deep roots in Chinese culture and very
much so in Cantonese society it was
estimated in the 1920s that at least one
half of all hong kong families had at
least one boys i working for them so
this wasn't going to be a simple thing
to deal with the people who actually had
to run things in Hong Kong they were
often annoyed at the lack of
understanding by those in London who
seemed oblivious to the potential
consequences of enforcing their
directives no less a personage than
Winston Churchill himself on februari
22nd 1922 fired off a telegram the
governor Stubbs saying mujhay i am not
at all satisfied unless i am able to
state that this institution does not
involve the slightest element of
compulsory employment which is the
essence of slavery and that every Muji I
of a certain age is in law and in
practice free if she wishes to leave her
adoptive parents are employers I cannot
defend it's a continued existence in a
British colony London really put the
pressure on but you know there's this
amazing Chinese invention called
government bureaucracy
and it's spring into action in this case
and with just the right amount of
resistance and obfuscation Stubbs was
able to show that he was on this thing
but at the same time nothing got done
and it was business as usual this mu
each I issue continued to drag on into
the next governorship another thing that
began during the time of Cyril Stubbs
was the whole matter of a constitution
and the argument about how important it
was or wasn't to give political
representation to the people of Hong
Kong the Colonial Office you know those
back in London who were in charge of
running the colonies by remote control
they felt this was totally unnecessary
first of all the high-ups in the
Colonial Office never trusted the Hong
Kong local business community they saw
them back then for the self-serving lot
that they were like every constituency
they too were always looking for the
best deal for themselves so any talk of
constitutional reform and giving the
kind of representation that a
constitution might offer was out of the
question the prevailing attitude was
that you know if he gave these rights to
the euros then the Eurasians will demand
the same rights and before you know what
the local Chinese are going to want them
to so no one was willing to take this
whole idea and run with it not in the
1920s that is after sun yat-sen came to
power he came down to Hong Kong in
February 1923 and spoke in Hong Kong
University Surrey jenil Stubbs
graciously received son who had for so
long then exiled from Hong Kong and not
welcome there for many years now he
spoke for all of China or at least for
guangdong province sun yat-sen had said
in his speech that day that hong kong
had been his revolutionary birth place
where he learned both revolutionary and
modern ideas son died in march of 1925
and stubbs left as governor in october
of that same year he was succeeded by
governor sir cecil clemente who was
fluent in both Cantonese and Mandarin
the labor problems that transpired
during the times of Reginald Stubbs were
ultimately worked out under Clemente
this was due in part with the help of
John kai-shek who took over from son and
ran things down in can't on this general
strike and boycott caused by the
nationalism and revolutionary spirit of
the day did quite a bit of damage to the
economy of Hong Kong there was the
mechanic strike of 1920 the seaman's
strike of 1922 and the strike boycott
that I had mentioned this one lasted
1925 to 1926 a lot of business shifted
to Shanghai and as Shanghai's fortunes
rose Hong Kong spell by Clemente's time
as governor with Shanghai where ships
called on more than Hong Kong and
Shanghai which was hailed as the Paris
of the Orient in Hong Kong just a
colonial backwater one other thing hi
tech airport began operations during
Clemente's time in 1928 eight years
later Imperial Airways and Pan Am began
providing flights from Hong Kong to hubs
not far away that could take you to San
Francisco in London despite all the
uncertainty in China even with the
Communists and nationalists now locked
in a duel to the death if you were an
entrepreneur or counted yourself among
the elites or future elites there was so
much to be optimistic about it was easy
to look to the future and feel confident
that with Hong Kong's unique attachment
to Great Britain great days lie ahead
Chinese were still streaming into Hong
Kong mostly from Canton escaping the
uncertainty of China in the 1920s and
30s Hong Kong had his problems too but
compared to what was going on in China
it was a bedrock of stability and try of
some of the more leftist elements did
they were never successful in igniting
the revolutionary flame in Hong Kong the
masses in Hong Kong seemed content to
offer any and all moral support to their
fellow Chinese across the border but
when it came to
signing up to kick the British out or
any attempts to incite anti-colonial
riots or whatnot it was hard to get the
local Hong Kong people to sign on back
then they weren't so sure about the
benefits or the impact on their
well-being if the British were forced
out and China took over as more Chinese
came the place became more and more
Chinese that is Chinese businesses began
to dominate retail stores theaters
advertising signs and billboards
everywhere restaurants tea houses they
were popping up all over the place
quietly factories were being set up in
the whole foundation for the mini
industrial revolution that would happen
after world war two was being built
Chinese commerce was growing at an
unbelievable rate and with that
financial and economic power came
influence two worlds existed
side-by-side in Hong Kong and both used
and needed the other is for the Muay
Thai problem that hot potato
successfully managed to not be addressed
decisively and Clemente was able to pass
this one off to his successor a very
high degree of pressure was put on
Clemente to act but the tide was not
easy enough to turn in Hong Kong there
was still too much resistance the Muay
Thai system continued well into the late
1930s with cases still being reported
into the 1970s every effort was made to
get rid of it or regulate it but some
traditions were simply too deeply
entrenched to completely do away with
Clemente did something rather shocking
in its day she dared to nominate a local
Chinese to the sacred Executive Council
her exco he couldn't do anything to
advance the idea of a constitution in
lieu of this he dared to nominate a
local Chinese to exco this man had about
his rock solid credentials this one
could possibly dream of culturally
political astuteness intelligence
education this person was Sir Showzen
Chow or Joe children
chosen Chow was also known by the name
Joe chun-li he was born not too far from
the road that bears his name today josan
Hill Road in deep water bay he was
educated at Phillips Academy in
Massachusetts and studied at Columbia
and then went on to serve in various
capacities in the chain government he
helped found the mighty Bank of East
Asia 1918 and served in different
departments of the Hong Kong government
including ledge go he was appointed to
exco in 1926 and later on was knighted
and became sir josan show during the
strikes and boycotts of the early 20s it
was show sin Chow and another local
Eurasian by the name of Sir Robert
Hormuz coat wall yes coldwell road in
the mid levels those two joined forces
to counter all the attempts by strike
organizers to create havoc in the colony
for this they were attacked within some
elements of the Hong Kong Chinese
community for you know acting like
running dogs of the British imperialists
but their contribution in getting
through this rough period during the
time of stubs and Clemente was
invaluable I haven't mentioned Sir
Robert hode on the shell Xiang in
Mandarin that surname is pronounced hood
don't anyone who spent more than a few
weeks in Hong Kong will see this name
all over the place he was born in what
is today lan kwai fong on da galera
street his father was a Dutch Jew and
his mother was Chinese who hailed from
across the border in what is now the
metropolis of Shenzhen his career and
fate was very much tied to the mast of
the jardine ship he was there compra
door and he was very good at his job
like those other Hong Kong legends who
I've mentioned in this series Robert ho
tung was of that mold these were the
handful of go-to guys whenever the
British had a desperate need to connect
with the Hong Kong Chinese these guys
understood the British the politics the
global
shoe Asia and the economic merits of
every argument then these pillars of the
Chinese community would go do their
thing to get the word out or canvas the
community to gauge the feeling Robert
hotung been Eurasian had a foot in two
worlds he was brilliant and acquired
vast amounts of wealth and all his
various endeavors he was admired by
European and Chinese alike and his
advice was always eagerly sought out
when the ordinance passed that said no
Chinese allowed on the peak Sir Robert
hode tongue was the first one they made
an exception for his spread on the peak
known as hotel gardens still survives
today there was recently a bit of a
tussle to redevelop that massive
property but so far it's still a
protected monument anyways Robert ho
Tung is a topic for a future episode
I'll be featuring Robert hode tongue in
a future podcast about that famous Hong
Kong family he was one of a handful of
movers and shakers who were able to mix
freely and comfortably in two worlds as
for his influence and ability to shake
policy in history it cannot be
underestimated remember the Shanghai
Massacre April 1927 we covered that in
CHP episode 55 that's when John kai-shek
put an end to the shotgun wedding
between the Communists and the
Nationalists the Communists their
sympathizers and those were too far to
the left of the KMT if they survived the
bloody work carried out by the green
gang goons they scattered and many of
them ended up in Hong Kong that was a
safe haven for the Communists you know
comparatively that is the British knew
they were there and made some effort to
limit their organizing activities being
done in Hong Kong by the time of
Clemente after taking into consideration
the strikes and the politics of the time
it was felt that Hong Kong was best
served by having friendly and open
relations with whoever controlled Canton
guangzhou because of the make
up up the colony overwhelmingly
culturally Cantonese it was imperative
that the Hong Kong government and the
local government officials in Canton
keeping close cooperation whatever was
going down in Guangzhou always
reverberating in Hong Kong Clemente made
efforts to push education in hong kong
by this he meant traditional chinese
education including all the cultural
aspects as well the attitude was this
stuff was much more benign than all this
radical nationalism that was wafting out
into the populace something had to be
done to counter that feeling or at least
keep it under control sir Cecil Clemente
left Hong Kong suddenly in February of
1930 he was needed elsewhere in the
Empire in Singapore this opened the door
for Sir William peel to serve he SAT
behind the governor's desk for five
years leaving in may of nineteen
thirty-five during the time of peel and
this peel is one in the same of peel
rise that road that cuts through
aberdeen country park not peel street in
the soho area soho of course south of
hollywood road hong kong's very own
version of Soho in New York City south
of Houston Street that peel street in
soho is named after the two-time British
Prime Minister Robert Peel not Sir
William during peels time that amazing
invention the telephone came into use
and regular air service began between
Hong Kong and China so Hong Kong is now
starting to become little recognizable
perhaps to us in our age modern society
was really gathering steam now this
period the early 30s was turbulent all
around the world the depression all the
events that led to the rise of Hitler
Mussolini and a vicious militant Japan
this was all happening now in nineteen
thirty Ho Chi Minh founded the
Vietnamese Communist Party in Hong Kong
the world now was a much more dangerous
and complicated place than
the days of William Jardine Henry
Pottinger and Lord Palmerston during Sir
William peels time there was an attempt
to crack down on all houses of
ill-repute brothels were shut down and
the whole thing was driven underground
or forced to make adjustments to their
business model now when you consider the
statistics in the 1920s that as many as
thirty to forty percent of the Chinese
male population of Hong Kong had some
sort of VD it's no wonder that the
government had to take action
prostitution in Hong Kong had been
illegal for years the guys in charge in
London saw to that but you know how it
is when you're so far away there's
always ways to you know show compliance
but at the same time keep it going in a
quieter hush-hush way this allowed for a
kind of a licensing system but now in
peels time even the powers that be back
in London not to mention the new League
of Nations and several women's groups
were all screaming for the end of
licensed prostitution in Hong Kong the
brothels were closed down but of course
this didn't put an end to the market as
the demand was still as strong as ever
like with opium and other vices
prostitution was simply driven
underground which of course made it
impossible to regulate which led to
higher rates of venereal diseases the
Japanese when they march into Hong Kong
are going to attempt to regulate it but
as we'll see once they're booted out in
1945 the British will move back in and
quash it once and for all sort of we're
gonna put the bookmark in right here and
pick up with the 19th governor of Hong
Kong sore Andrew caldecott next time two
things about him his tenure as governor
was the shortest in colonial history
December 1935 to October 1937 he was
called away from the governorship
suddenly to take over as the governor of
salon it was during this time that
events are gonna take a big hit as Japan
is going to launch a full-scale invasion
of China and then we'll see how after
Japan puts a stranglehold on China
Hong Kong plays the role as China's
emergency banker and window to the
outside world that's all for next time I
got back from this long trip a few days
ago this one was grueling expensive and
overly long for yours truly but I got
all my peoples to all their meetings all
the presentations were made and there
were no disasters that hit us only one
canceled flight from O'Hare to
Westchester County Airport in White
Plains New York but other than that a
good solid productive two-week trip I'm
hoping there will be no further
traveling to the end of the year
overnighters to Las Vegas don't count
next week we'll go through the Japanese
occupation and then Hong Kong is going
to boom like never before but that's all
for next time this is laszlo Montgomery
the China history podcast com wishing
you all the very best during this
festive holiday season hope that's going
well for all of you take care everyone
see you next time